# Contributing to Expo Config Plugins

## Submitting a pull request

To submit a pull request:

1. Fork the [repository](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins) and create a feature branch. (Existing contributors can create feature branches without forking. Prefix the branch name with `@your-github-username/`.)
2. Run `pnpm install` in the root directory to generate the build files.
3. Use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) including in the PR title.
4. Fill out the entire PR template. Ensure your code is tested locally and has continuous tests in CI.
5. Make sure all tests pass on GitHub Actions.
6. Wait for a review and adjust the code if necessary.

## Creating a plugin

- Plugins can be generated by running `pnpm gen`.
- Add plugins to the example in [`apps/app`](/apps/app/package.json) to test them.
- The example app should always stay in a state of regeneration.

Be sure to run the following scripts in the **root directory** to update automation tools:

- Update dependabot: `pnpm update-dependabot-config`
- Update the issue template: `pnpm update-issue-template`

## Upgrading plugins for a new Expo version

- Update the `catalog:` block in `pnpm-workspace.yaml` with the new SDK versions for `expo`, `expo-module-scripts`, `@expo/config-plugins`, and any other shared dependencies
- Ensure every project under `apps/` is updated to latest version of Expo
- Update each library’s `README.md`
  - Ensuring the latest version of Expo is listed
  - Ensure the upstream package version is correct
  - Use the next version for the matching config plugin
- Update `SDK_VERSION` in [`scripts/generate-plugin.ts`](https://github.com/expo/config-plugins/blob/566f54e785147d88cb4c98490c3e536ee7ef3001/scripts/generate-plugin.ts#L67)

## Publishing a release

All publishing should be handled automatically whenever code is merged to `main`.
